Carl: Find the chair.
Find the chair. Find the chair.
Oh, he’s trying to avoid it,
he doesn't want me to walk into it.
Come on, find the chair. Find the chair.
Come on.
I just bragged about your ability.
[music plays]
Good boy.
[Loud beep]
Forward.
I have my buddy here,
Merrick, who’s 11 years old.
He’s my third guide dog.
I also use a white came
when I need to,
but I prefer guide dog travel.
When we’re just walking and
he understands me with a few gestures
and I know what he’s telling me.
We're just communicating seamlessly
and we're just working
well together as a team.
And he’s just getting me
from point A to point B
without any hassle,
and it's just an unbelievable feeling.
Ok, good boy.
Okay, yeah, alright, you did good.
I take the bus
and the subway
since I live here in Boston.
I take the 57 bus to Kenmore station
and then I get on
the green line subway to Park Street,
and then walk to the State House.
And that’s about
an hour each way for me.
[wind blowing]
“Third floor”
Ok, forward, right.
My name is Carl Richardson, and I am the
Massachusetts State House ADA coordinator
where it is my role to ensure
that all programs, services, and activities
at the Massachusetts State House
are accessible to people of all abilities.
I work closely with the legislature,
the executive branch, and stakeholders
from the disability community
to ensure that everyone has full access.
What's the matter, buddy?
I don't want to go back to the elevator.
Okay, left. There we go.
Yes, yes, I put a rail in there.
There didn’t use to be a rail in there.
Is that Michael?
Michael: It’s Mike and Karen.
Carl: Oh, my two favorites.
I’m a star, didn’t you know?
Michael: We always knew.
How do people feel experientially
when they walk into a building?
Hello, Trooper.
Trooper: Hi!
Carl: How are you?
Trooper: I’m well.
Can I go in there?
Trooper: Yes sir.
Carl: Alright, thank you.
I, as a person with a disability,
might overlook a sign
not having braille,
but do I feel welcome and respected
when I enter a building?
Do the staff talk to me with respect?
Do they say,
“Hey, can I help you?”
So there are a number of
areas that I look at
when in terms of accessibility
of the State House.
It could be physical access,
whether rooms
are physically accessible.
So I could be working on capital projects
such as upgrading rooms for wheelchair
accessibility, that sort of thing.
All right.
We are now in the Senate Chambers..
Some of the access features
that we did in this room
when we redid the room
a few years ago is,
these desks are old and historic,
and we were worried about cutting them up
and taking away the historic integrity
of the desks. So
how could we make them
accessible to wheelchair users
without ruining the desk?
So we simply put a false bottom
on the desk
and raised them slightly.
They’re user-friendly so that
people can use them
and they will maintain
the historic integrity of what they are.
Absolutely.
We also have induction coil loop in this rug
for those who are hard of hearing.
So you can either wear ALD,
assistive listening device receivers
or someone like myself can simply click
a switch on their hearing aid
and then somebody is speaking into the sound system
and it goes directly into their hearing aid.
This room is 225 years old,
and yet we found ways to make this room
more friendly to people with disabilities.
[traffic souds]
[music plays]
Some of the things we are
advocating for
is transportation access issues,
internet affordability
for people with disabilities,
sidewalk repair and installation
of audible pedestrian signals.
We're just advocating for the same things
that everybody else wants.
We just want to have a normal life
and the ability to have all those things,
and that's all we really want.
[music ends]